docs/data_topic.md, before:

## Data topic

[Data topic sign-up sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Vuh6KlMqETnW8UC4W0va5BUMYsgCCtC3bvrDEFoB7Rg/edit?usp=sharing)

[Folk the course website](https://github.com/ma-ji/open_data), edit this page accordingly, and create a pull request.

---

### Useful Data inventories:
[Awesome Public Datasets](https://github.com/awesomedata/awesome-public-datasets) | [Google Dataset Search](https://toolbox.google.com/datasetsearch) | _Please add more!_

---

### Week 3: [Andrew Messamore's Data Topic](https://data.cityofchicago.org/).

#### Dataset Introduction

This is the city of Chicago's open data API. I hope to use it to look at how civic organizations impact the quality of housing and other important social issues.

#### Related academic study
* Kassen, Maxat. "A promising phenomenon of open data: A case study of the Chicago open data project." Government Information Quarterly 30, no. 4 (2013): 508-513.
* This article presents a case study of the open data project in the Chicago area. The main purpose of the research is to explore empowering potential of an open data phenomenon at the local level as a platform useful for promotion of civic engagement projects and provide a framework for future research and hypothesis testing. Today the main challenge in realization of any e-government projects is a traditional top–down administrative mechanism of their realization itself practically without any input from members of the civil society. In this respect, the author of the article argues that the open data concept realized at the local level may provide a real platform for promotion of proactive civic engagement. By harnessing collective wisdom of the local communities, their knowledge and visions of the local challenges, governments could react and meet citizens' needs in a more productive and cost-efficient manner. Open data-driven projects that focused on visualization of environmental issues, mapping of utility management, evaluating of political lobbying, social benefits, closing digital divide, etc. are only some examples of such perspectives. These projects are perhaps harbingers of a new political reality where interactions among citizens at the local level will play a more important role than communication between civil society and government due to the empowering potential of the open data concept.

Commit message:

Update Data Topics
I have added my data topic to the website.

docs/data_topic.md, after:

## Data topic

[Data topic sign-up sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Vuh6KlMqETnW8UC4W0va5BUMYsgCCtC3bvrDEFoB7Rg/edit?usp=sharing)

[Folk the course website](https://github.com/ma-ji/open_data), edit this page accordingly, and create a pull request.

---

### Useful Data inventories:
[Awesome Public Datasets](https://github.com/awesomedata/awesome-public-datasets) | [Google Dataset Search](https://toolbox.google.com/datasetsearch) | _Please add more!_

---

### Week 5: Harshal Zalke

#### Dataset Introduction: [IMF Data](https://www.imf.org/en/Data)
I will be using the [IMF database](https://www.imf.org/en/Data) to gather data on loans provided to different developing countries and the conditions attached with each loan.

#### Related Academic Study
Dreher, Axel, Jan-Egbert Sturm, and James Raymond Vreeland. "Global horse trading: IMF loans for votes in the United Nations Security Council." European Economic Review 53, no. 7 (2009): 742-757.

This paper studies the relationship between IMF loans approved to developig countries and theier membership status in the United Nations Security Council. The authors propose that temporary members of the United Nations Security Council are more likely to get their loan requests approved. For this, they use a panel data for 197 countries over the period from 1951 to 2004. They check the number of loans approved for each country between these years. They also check the number of conditions attached with each loan. The study finds that not only do the temporary members of UNSC are more likely to get their loan request approved but the conditions attached with loans are also fewer. The authors conclude that IMF loans is a mechanism by which shareholders of the fund win favor with voting members of the United Nations.
